---
layout: post
title: Rspec
category: 测试
comments: true
---


#rspec
#### Goal
* 1.readable
* 2.fast

#### Implementation
>1. It describes a set of expectations, 能通过测试知道你做的是什么东西


#### Synax

> #### [RSpec Expectation](https://github.com/rspec/rspec-expectations)

> 1.to be
> > to be_valid


> 2.to have

>     expect(Contact.new(firstname: nil)).to have(1).errors_on(:firstname)

***
> 3.to eq
> RSpec prefers eq over == to indicate an expectation of equality.

> 4.to eql

> 5.to be
> passes if actual.equal?(expected), same as to equal()
> to be > >= <= <

> 6.to match
> expect(actual).to match(/expression/)


> #### shared example

>>      shared_examples("public access to contacts") do end
>>      ......
>>      it_behaves_like "public access to contacts"

> #### let
*   let 采用了 lazy load 的机制，只有在第一次用到的时候才会加载，然后就被缓存，直到example结束。他的值的改变旨在在一个example中有效，而不会在多个examples中有效
*   It caches the value without assigning it to an instance variable.
*   It is lazily evaluated, meaning that it doesn’t get assigned until a spec calls upon it.
*   如果要让变量在使用之前就赋值好，可以使用let!

> #### before
* before(:example) == before(:each), before(:context) == before(:all)

before(:each) 每个example之前都会执行一遍
before(:all) 只会在一整个describe中执行一遍，一些简单的varaible（@instance＝123）在各个example中是不会改变数值的，而其他的会在各个example改变数值。so simple variables will be reset but references to complex variables, like a hash。一般不常用这个方法，但是在opening a network connection这种场景中很好用

这是因为：

* the describe block is magic that makes a class
* the it block is magic that makes sub class of the describe class
* the before and after blocks are not in a sub class they are part of the describe class

> #### subject

>>     subject { build(:user, firstname: 'John', lastname: 'Doe') }
>>     it { should be_named 'John Doe' } # it的简单用法｛｝

> #### specify

>>     subject{ Contact.new }
>>     specify { should validate_presence_of :firstname }  #shoulda 是个类库

> #### mock and stub

* mock: fake object. FactoryGirl.build_stubbed,创建个实例，可以直接调用这个实例的方法

* stub: override method call on a given object. 覆盖原有方法，让他按照期望的返回

>>     allow(Contact).to receive(:order).with('lastname,firstname').and_return([contact]).
>>     Contact.stub(:order).with('lastname,firstname').and_return([contact]). # same as before

* **verify doubles**

>  <font size='2'>double type (instance, class, object, dynamic class, partial).
    RSpec will check that the methods being stubbed are actually present on the underlying object if it is available, but "no checking will happen if the underlying object or class is not defined"
    , but "no checking will happen if the underlying object or class is not defined".</font>


> #### tags

>>     it "processes a credit card", focus: true do end #focus:true is a tag
>>     rspec . --tag focus

> #### [Email_spec](http://rubygems.org/gems/email_spec)

>>     expect(open_last_email).to be_delivered_from sender.email
>>     expect(open_last_email).to have_reply_to sender.email


> #### File upload

>>     factory :user do
>>     sequence(:username) { |n| "user#{n}"}
>>     avatar { File.new("#{Rails.root}/spec/factories/avatar.png")
>>     ...... feature spec
>>     fill_in 'Password', with: 'secret'
>>     attach_file 'Avatar',
>>        File.new("#{Rails.root}/spec/factories/avatar.png")

> #### timecop
>> freeze the time January
>>     Timecop.travel Time.parse("January 1")

#### Best Practice
* 先写接口性的测试，然后完成接口，然后写细节性的测试，然后一步一步实现细节。
* 写description能直接看懂的测试，所以可以Start context with ‘when’/'with’ and methods description with ‘#’

* use let and let! first (then before)

* 只创建你需要的数据
* mock, what time you will use?
* use specify？？不一定，测试第一要务好读，而不是写的简单
>     specify { @user.should be_valid }
* use should
>
        it { should validate_presence_of :name }
        it { should have_one :address }
* use subject??
>
        it { should validate_presence_of :name }
        it { should have_one :address }
        it { should respond_to :name   }






#### Faker
> #### synax -- [faker](http://www.rubydoc.info/gems/faker/1.0.1/frames)
>> Faker::Name
>> Faker::PhoneNumber.phone_number
>> Faker::Internet(.email)


#### Capybara

> #### synax
>> click_link

>> fill_in

>> visit

#### 优秀的写法

    describe User do
      before { @user = User.new }

      subject { @user }

      context "when name empty" do
        it { should not be_valid }
        specify { @user.save.should == false }
      end

      context "when name not empty" do
        before { @user.name = 'Sam' }

        it { should be_valid }
        specify { @user.save.should == true }
      end

      describe :present do
        subject { @user.present }

        context "when user is a W" do
          before { @user.gender = 'W' }

          it { should be_a Flower }
        end

        context "when user is a M" do
          before { @user.gender = 'M' }

          it { should be_an IMac }
        end
      end
    end



